I'm going to show you how to melt
chocolate and then how to use it to make
some chocolate cows now what I've done
is I've broken up some dark chocolate
into small pieces and I've popped it in
a glass bowl over a pan of barely
simmering water the thing when you're
melting chocolate is you don't want to
overheat the chocolate or it can split
and start to burn so make sure that the
bowls not actually touching the water
just needs to be above it and make sure
that your water never starts to boil she
literally just be barely simmering now
you can see this has already just
started to melt but I'm just going to
give it a stir it's going to help the
chocolate melt evenly and keep a
constant temperature you can also melt
chocolate in a microwave but obviously
because you don't want it to overheat
you've got to be a lot more careful so
if you're going to melt it in a
microwave just keep it on a really low
heat and keep taking the chocolate in
and out and giving it a stir and
allowing it to cool a little bit if you
think it's starting to overheat or
anything like that just turn off the
heat underneath because the heat that's
left in this water will be enough to
melt it'll just take a little bit longer
and this should take you know a few
minutes at the most but it's better to
be careful and do it over a longer time
and do it carefully rather than moving
it and this is dark chocolate so it
melts and it gives a really nice glossy
finish milk chocolate melts to a
slightly thicker consistency as does
white chocolate and you have to be even
more careful with them and we're almost
there with that one and this is one I
just did before now for this one I'm
actually going to make some chocolate
curls for you and I'm gonna spread this
over a tray so tip out your chocolate be
careful if you've taken off the hob
because you've got a lot of steam built
up underneath so make sure you use some
other gloves and just carefully wipe the
steam you don't want any water to get in
your chocolate because that can also
cause it disease tip out your chocolate
onto your tray I've just got an upturned
baking sheet anything with a nice flat
shiny surface is great for making
chocolate curls and then I've got a
pallet knife I'm just going to spread
this out using nice the
even kind of paddle movements until I've
got an even layer over the tray you need
it to be quite thin but when you're
making the curls you want to have a
couple of goes on each surface so you
you don't want to be able to see through
the chocolate or anything like that
so that's perfect now you either need to
leave this cool for a little bit or pop
it in the fridge until it's till it's a
little bit firmer you don't want it hard
you don't it back to how it was before
let's get that one out the way this is
when I prepared earlier and if I feel
that it feels slightly slightly soft to
touch now to make chocolate curls you
need to use a good knife have a little
experiment and see what you feel happier
with I've got a couple here I've got a
palette knife which is nice and flexible
I find that quite good and I've also got
a fish knife here which is also it's got
a little bit more of a flexible blade
and it's it's better for when you're
holding it and bring it towards you so
I'm going to have a go with my fish
knife first I think as I said just have
a play see what feels comfortable for
you you're just going to pop your knife
on holding both ends firmly at a slight
angle facing towards you put the blade
just getting a tiny bit of chocolate and
you're just gonna bring the blade
towards you like that you can do small
ones large ones and you can see you
start to get these nice cars I try and
do some longer ones for you to show you
as well these curls once you've done
them put them on a clean tray or
something like that and get them in the
fridge to set up so they're nice and
firm for when you want to use them to
decorate cakes and things like that just
facing it slightly towards me I'm
pushing the tray against myself to give
me a nice firm grip
gently dragging the knife down and you
can see there I've got some really nice
longer curls the good thing about this
method is you get you get different
length ones you get some you can kind of
hold the tip at one end and just turn
the handle end which means you get
cone-shaped curls and get little ones
get long ones so when they're scattered
over a cake they can look really nice
here we go this is a perfect temperature
if it starts to get too warm just pop it
in the fridge for literally a couple of
minutes you'll find that the chocolates
coming off but it's not curling and if
it's too hard you'll find that the
chocolates just cracking it's getting
some really nice ones now milk
chocolates easy to use as is white
chocolate you'll find dark curls a
little bit harder just because there's
not so much fat in the chocolate so it's
a little bit firmer now if you're a
little bit nervous about making these
there is an easier way just using one of
these swiveled vegetable peelers that
you might have to do carrots and things
like that and I've just got a block of
chocolate I've literally broken this
straight off a block of milk chocolate
I've let this sit out the fridge and
become quite warm you need it to be
quite soft to touch but not melting and
then I'm just gonna as if I'm was
peeling a vegetable peeler curls off the
chocolate let's show that one to you so
you can get nice little curls just like
that they're not gonna be as long and as
fancy as those ones but this is great
for kids if they want to decorate
something this is a really easy method
for them to use so another go so just
gently apply the same pressure gently
pulling it down and pulling off nice
little curls like that so that's how to
melt chocolates safely and carefully and
how to make chocolate curls
you